- [Instructor] Spring Data supports many types
of data sources via the Commons CrudRepository.
We've already seen it in action with Spring Data JPA,
let's leverage what we've learned and apply it MongoDB.
Instead of JPA entities, MongoDB persists
what it calls documents.
We have a new Spring Boot university project
in the 501 folder, and in the pom.xml configuration file,
we have from Maven to dependencies,
MongoDB, and Flapdoodle,
which is an in-memory MongoDB repository
that requires no configuration.
In the domain folder, we have three domain model objects,
Department, Person and Staff.
Staff is a MongoDB document
which encapsulates Person as a member,
Person is a plain old Java object
that has the first and last name of the person,
Department is the other MongoDB document,
it has an ID, and a name, and a DBRef to staff called chair.
For each document there is a repository
so in the repo folder we have DepartmentRepository
and StaffRepository.
StaffRepository is a Spring Data paging
and sorting repository, it also implements CrudRepository,
similar to JPA StaffRepository in chapter four.
There are two query methods, findByMemberLastName,
and is a property expression,
findByFirstName issues a JSON query
via the @Query annotation.
Now let's look at the DepartmentRepository.
DepartmentRepository is a MongoRepository
which extends paging and storing repository,
query by example executer, and CrudRepository.
We have three query methods,
findByName is a simple property expression,
findNameByPattern issues a JSON query
which performs a regular expression search
in the department name,
and findByChairLastName is a property expression
which fails when invoked.
At bootstrap, Spring Data believes the method is valid
because it will pass property expression rules,
however it is invalid because
we're pointing to a MongoDB data source.
The department attribute chair is a DBRef
and crosses into a different document staff.
Unlike JPA, MongoDB does not permit joined queries.
Let's go to the MongoDBApplication main.
MongoDBApplication is our main
Spring Boot application class.
Just like the JPA example, the Flapdoodle in-memory database
starts up automatically and requires no initialization.
We inject the repositories into the class
and create 11 staff members and three departments,
and persist them.
Now let's run the methods in our MongoDB test file.
I'll run this in debug, and we'll have methods
to exercise these.
So first we're going to step through
our paging and sorting queries on the StaffRepository,
we're going to sort by last name,
so find all and then apply this sort,
and see, and so all the staff are sorted by last name.
Now we're going to find the first staff members
and sort them alphabetically by last name.
And then we have sorted them by last name,
now we're going to do, find members by last name of King.
We have one staff member with the last name of King,
and now we're going to find all staff members
with the first name John, and we have one, John Jones.
Now we're going to apply the paging
and sorting repository by alphabetical last name,
from the department, and now the property expression
find department by name Humanities,
and there's the Humanities.
Now we're going to apply the rejects
to find all departments where you have Sciences in the name
of the department, so S, it can be a capital S
or a lowercase S, and anything before that,
and then lowercase iences.
And so there's, we have Natural Science and Social Science,
and now here's the method that will fail when we run it.
So let's actually see the error we got,
MappingException, Invalid path reference
chair.member.lastname,
Associations can only be pointed to directly
via their property id, so we're crossing DBRefs.
So, while we can use Spring Data to generically code
to many data sources, we must remain mindful
of each data source's unique characteristics.